I've got a question. Yeah.
To do with, is there a way the machine learning can actually find the
sort of conditional probabilistic segments that are, say, in sort of heterogeneous data?
I am having trouble parsing that question. Can you give like an example or something?
Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, I'm modeling with road surface friction with road risk, rather.
And, and fundamentally, there's, you know, there's this set of stereotypes in road analysis.
And, you know, we all know them as highways, three ways, urban materials. And they actually
go through a series of stages, sort of, they're almost like states. And each of the states is
going to sort of conditional probabilistic relationship between a set of predictors and
the actual response variable, we don't know the crash response variable. Is there anything that
you want that in, in deep learning? So how, how is that different to a normal predictive model?
Like, I mean, all predictive models are conditional probabilities, right? What's there? Yeah,
that's here. Well, I mean, take something like X, G, B, for example, and you want to predict
a risk of a given road. So it'll give you value. The thing you got no idea as to what's happened
inside of the model. And, you know, I'm really, we're really interested in that because once you
find the distributions, you can then start to do some quality testing on, on when they actually
follow the domain or, you know, whether you segmentation process that actually determines
predictions is good or not. And so, you know, why, rather than say predicting some sort of
crash rate or risk or whatever, I'm really looking for those probabilistic distributions and
learning within the service. So all deep learning models will return a set of probabilities. That's
what they're, that's what their final layer returns. And then we decode them by taking the
argmax across them. But there's nothing to stop you using those probabilities directly.
But I'm probably misunderstanding your, your question. It's, it's a little abstract for me to
understand. Like, I mean, I know there's, there's lots of things you can do with, you know,
confidence intervals and whatnot. But really depends a great deal on the specific details of
the application, what you're trying to do and how you're trying to do it.
Good question, Daniel. I'm just, are you, are you talking about probability of an incident or risk
related, related to the right surface? So you're going to need some sort of tabular data that has
the, the, the occurrences with each right surface that you're trying to.
And why wouldn't XG based give you that if you had a particular model of, of, of incidents?
Well, in my mind, at least one of the disadvantages of XG based is the fact that,
you know, the issues, seeing a set of variable effects. You know, whereas in, in what we're dealing
with, we've got some really high, high crash roads, sort of, sort of a, a different
conditional probability relationship between the, the predictors and the response compared to
say the average. And so XG based does an excellent job in making predictions, but you've got no idea
as to, you know, the group of instances that they're actually making a prediction or the actual
variable effects. Okay, so I think I understand your question now. And I think the answer is
actually it does. And what I suggest you do, if you haven't already is read the chapter of the
first AI book on tabular modeling. And it will cover something very similar, which is random
forests, which is another ensemble of decision trees. And it will show you how to get
exactly the kind of insights that I think you're looking for. And all of the techniques there
would work equally well for random forests. And they also work equally well for deep learning.
So maybe after you've done that, you can come back and let us know whether you helped.
Yeah, well, I'm so glad to train them first, maybe,
maybe it doesn't really give you a random form.
I strongly suggest you read the chapter before you say that, because I'm pretty sure it will.
And if it doesn't, that would be very interesting to me. But I've,
yeah, in fact, I'll make you see last time that I'm really looking for the
technical data. Cool. Great. I'll show you what you, I'll show you guys what I've been working on,
which has been fun. So, the first thing I did, you know, after I got off our last call was I
basically just threw together the kind of like most obvious basic steps one would do for a standard
image recognition competition, just in order to show people that that can be quite good.
And it was actually a little embarrassing, because I didn't mean to do this. When I submitted it,
it turned out I got first on the lead board. So now I feel like I'm going to have to write down
exactly what I did, because, you know, during an active competition, everybody needs to share
what they're doing, if they share it with anybody, some eat publicly. So I thought I'd show you
what I did here, but I think this is about to go up quite a lot, because, you know, what we're doing
here is where they're interesting images for a couple of reasons. One is that they're kind of
like things that you see in ImageNet, like their pictures of natural objects, their photos.
But I don't think ImageNet has any kind of like categories about diseases, you know, they have
categories about like, what's the main object in this? So they might have a category about like,
I don't know if they do, like some different kinds of grass, or some different types of
evens and different types of, you know, fields or something. But I'm pretty sure they don't have
anything about different kinds of crop disease. So it's a bit different to ImageNet,
which is what most of our pre trained models are trained on. But it's not that different.
And it's also interesting because nearly all of the images are the same shape and size,
so we can kind of try to take advantage of that.
And, you know, so when we fine tune a pre trained model,
there's, let me pull up this Cacron notebook I just created.
So I just published this yesterday.
Kind of look at the, what are the best vision models of fine tuning? And so I kind of realized
that there are two key dimensions that really seem to impact how well a model can be fine
tuned, you know, whether it works well or not or how it's different. So what is what I just
talked about, which is how similar is your data set to the data set used for the pre trained model?
If it's really similar, like pets to ImageNet, then like the critical factor is how well does
the fine tuning of the model maintain the weights that are pre trained, you know, because you're
probably not going to be changing very, very much. And you're probably going to be able to take
advantage of really big, accurate models because they've already learned to do almost the exact
thing you're trying to do. On the other hand, so that's the pet's data set. On the other hand,
there's a data set called the planet data set, which is images of satellite images.
And these are not really at all like anything that ImageNet ever saw, you know, they're taken
from above, they're taken from much further away. There's no single main object.
So a lot of the weights of a pre trained model are going to be useless for fine tuning this because
they've learned specific features like, you know, what does text look like? What do eyeballs look like?
What does fur look like? You know, which none of which are going to be very useful.
So that's the first dimension. The second dimension is just how big the data set is.
So on a big data set, you've got time, you've got epochs to
take advantage of having lots of parameters in the model to learn to use them effectively.
And if you don't have much data, then you don't have much ability to do that.
So you might imagine that deep learning practitioners already know these answers of how do we,
you know, what's the best models for fine tuning? But in fact, we don't. As far as I know, nobody's
ever done an analysis before of which models are the best for fine tuning. So that's what I did
over the weekend. And not just over the weekend, but really over the last couple of weeks.
And I did this with Thomas Capel, who works at Weights at Bias is another first AI community
member slash alumni. And so what we did was we tried fine tuning lots of models on two data sets,
one which has 10 times over 10 times less images. And where those images are not at all like ImageNet,
that being the Kaggle Planet sample. And one which is a lot like ImageNet and has a lot more images
that being IIT pets. And I kind of figured like if we get some insights from those two, perhaps there
will be something that we can leverage more generally. So Thomas wrote this script,
which it's 86 lines, but really there's only like three or four lines and there will be lines
you recognize, right? The lines are untied data, image data loaders dot from blah,
and then vision learner dls model, etc. So there's the normal like three or four lines of code we see
over and over again. And then, you know, the rest of it is basically lets you pass into the script,
different choices about batch size epochs and so forth. And that's about it. So this is like how
simple the script was that we used. And then partly because Thomas works at weights and biases,
and partly because weights and biases is pretty cool. We used weights and biases then to feed in
different values for each of those parameters. So this is a yaml file that weights and biases
users where you can say, okay, try each of these different learning rates, try each of these different
models, try each of these different resize methods, each of these different polling methods,
this distribution of learning rates, you know, whatever, and it goes away and tries them. And then
you can use their web GUI to look at like the training results. So then you basically say,
okay, start training and it trains each of these models over each of these data sets with each of
these pool values and each of these resize methods and a few different selections from this distribution
of learning rates. And creates a web GUI that you can dive into. I personally hate web
GUI's, I would much rather use Python. So but they also thankfully have an API. So yeah, so once we
ran that script for a few hours, and then checked the results into a, into a gist.
So a gist is just a place to check text files basically if you haven't used it before.
So I can, I checked my CSV file in here. As you can see, it kind of displays it in a nice way,
or you can just click on raw to see the raw data. So I find that quite a nice place just to chuck
things, which I'm just going to share publicly. And so then I can take this, the URL to the gist.
And maybe, let me show you how I did that.
So I was kind of like everything to be automated.
So I can always easily redo it because I always assume my first effort's going to be crap. And
it always is. And normally my second, third efforts are crap as well. So here's my little
notebook I put together. So basically each time you do one of these sweeps on weights and biases
that generates a new ID. And so we ended up kind of doing five different ones as we realized we
wanted to add different models and change things a little bit. And so they have this API that you
can use. And so they basically can go through and say, go through each of the sweep IDs and
ask the API for that sweep and grab the runs from it. And then for each one, create a dictionary
containing a summary in the model name. So the details don't matter too much, but you kind of
get the idea hopefully and then turn that into a data frame. And so I kind of end up with this
with this data frame that contains all the different configuration parameters.
Along with their loss and their speed, accuracy, GPU, maximum memory usage and so forth.
So that's basically what I wanted to check into a, into a gist. And so specifically,
I really wanted to subset of the columns. So these are the columns I wanted. So I can grab those
columns and put them into a CSV. Now, one thing you might not realize is I would say for most
Python libraries or at least most well written ones, anyway, you can put a file names. And only
when you say to CSV, you put here a file or a path. You could instead put something called a string
IO object, which is something that behaves exactly like a file. But it actually just stores the,
it stores it into a string, because I don't want this sort into a file. It's what it into a string.
So if you then call dot get value, I actually get the string. And so even things like creating
the gist, I want to do that automatically. So there's a library I'm very fond of. I'm very
biased because I made it called GH API, which is an API for GitHub, where we can do things like say
create gist, and you give it a description. And here's the text, which is the contents of the CSV
and the file name, make it public. And then you can get the HTML URL of the gist. So that's how like I
use used in this case, a notebook as my kind of, you know, interactive,
REPL read of our print loop for manipulating this data set, putting it together, and then
uploading it to GitHub. Jeremy, I had a doubt in this pond of data frame. Here you have like,
in your, I just take good to clear up your game, this and it had in the data set entries with
plan that other data set, the pet status, etc. So how did you populate it?
So what's your question? How did I populate this data set?
Yeah, that pond of data. Yeah, just here. So I passed it a list of dictionaries.
And the list of dictionaries I created using a list comprehension,
and containing a bunch of dictionaries. Okay, content. And so that's going to make each key.
So that means all the dictionaries should have, you know, roughly the same keys.
Anyone sort of missing are going to end up being NA. And then I just fiddled around with it slightly.
So for example, except by everything had an error rate that was equal to one minus the accuracy.
On the planet data set, it's not called accuracy. So I copied accuracy, multi into accuracy.
Yeah, nothing very exciting. Thank you.
Jeremy, what's actual goal of this? Let me show you. So what we've now got
is a CSV, which I can then,
okay, a CSV, which I can then use pandas pivot table functionality to group by the data set,
the model family and name, and calculate the min of error rate fit time and GPU memory.
And I can then take the pets subset of that,
sort by score, where score represents a combination of error and speed, and take the top 15.
And this now shows me the top 15 best models for fine tuning on pets.
And this is gold, in my opinion. I don't think anybody's ever done anything like this before.
There's never been a list of like pure the best models for fine tuning.
And yeah, sorry, I have a question. So you, you, you fine tune different models with pets,
and then collected this information. Is that correct? That's correct.
And then based on the information that you collected from the fine tune of five or whatever number of
iterations. We did three runs for each model. Yes. And then you collected this information to
find out which one is the best behave model for this specific case in this case. Correct, correct,
correct, exactly. And best is going to involve two things. It's going to be which ones have the
lowest error rate and which ones are the fastest. Now, I created this kind of arbitrary scoring
function where I multiplied the error rate times fit time plus 80. Just because I felt like that
particular value of that constant gave me an ordering that I was reasonably comfortable with.
But you can kind of look through here and see like, okay, well, VIT base has a much better error
rate than ComfNext Tiny, but it's also much slower. Like you can decide for your needs
where you want to trade off. So that's what I kind of the first thing I did was to create this
kind of top 15. And it's interesting looking at the family, right? The family is like each of
these different architectures, you know, is kind of from different sizes of a smaller subset of
families, right? So there's ComfNext Tiny, ComfNext Base, ComfNext Tiny and 22K and so forth.
So you can kind of get a sense of like, if you want to learn more about architectures,
which ones seem most interesting. And you know, for fine tuning on pets, it looks like ComfNext,
VIT, SWIN, ResNet, the main ones. So that, you know, the first thing I did, the second thing I then did
was to take those most interesting families, actually also added this one called RegNetX
and created a scatter plot of them colored by family. And so you can kind of see like, for example,
ComfNext, which I'm rather fond of, is this kind of blue line, these blue ones, right? And so you
can see that the very best error rate actually was a ComfNext. So they're pretty good. You can see
this one here, which is RegNetX seems to be, had some pretty nice values. Feel like super fast,
seems like these tiny swings seem to be pretty good. So it kind of gives you a sense of like,
you know, depending on how much time you've got to run or how accurate you want to be,
what families are like most most useful.
And then the last thing I did for pets was I grabbed a subset of the, basically, the ones which are
in the top, basically smaller than the median and faster than the median. Because these are the
ones I generally care about most of the time, because most of the time I'm going to be, you know,
training quick iterations. And so, and then I just ordered those by error rate.
And so ComfNext's tiny has got the best error rate of those which are in the upper half of both
speed and accuracy. That's the maximum amount of GPU memory that was used. I can't remember what
the units have measured are, but they don't matter too much because it'll be different for your
data set. All that matters is the relative usage. And so if you want something, you know, if you
try to use this and sexually use too much GPU memory, you could try ResNet 50D, for example,
or, you know, it's interesting that like ResNet 26 is really good for memory and speed.
Or if you want something really lightweight on memory, ResNet Y004, but the error rates are
getting much worse once you get out to here, as you can see. So then, so then I looked at Planet.
And so as I said, Planet's kind of as different a data set as you're going to get in one sense.
Or it's very different. And so not surprisingly, it's top 15 is also very different.
And interestingly, all of the top six are from the same family. So this VIT family, these are
kind of model called transformers models. And what this is basically showing is that these models
are particularly good at rapidly identifying features of data types it hasn't seen before.
So, you know, if you're doing something like medical imaging or satellite imagery or something
like that, these would probably be a good thing to try and swing, by the way, is kind of another
transformers based model, which as you can see, it's actually the most accurate of all,
but it's also the smallest. This is SWINV2.
So I thought that was pretty interesting. And, you know, these VIT models, there are ones with
pretty good error rates that also have very little memory use and also run very quickly.
So I did the same thing for Planet. And so perhaps not surprisingly, but interestingly,
for Planet, these lines don't necessarily go down, which is to say that the really big models,
the big slow models don't necessarily have better error rates. And that makes sense, right? Because
if they've got heaps of parameters, but they're trying to learn something they've never seen before
on very little data, it's unlikely we're going to be able to take advantage of those parameters.
So when you're doing stuff that doesn't really look much like ImageNet,
you might want to be down more towards this end. So here's the VIT, for example.
And here's that really good SWIN model. And there's ConfNext Tiny.
So then we could do the same thing again of like, okay, let's take the top half, both in terms of
speed and memory use. ConfNext's tiny still looks good. These VIT models, this 224,
yeah, this is because you can only run these models on images of size 224 by 224.
They're not, you can't use different sizes. Whereas the ConfNext models, you can use any size.
So it's also interesting to see the classic resnet still, again, they do pretty well.
Yeah, so I'm pretty excited about this. It feels like exactly what we need to
kick ass on this Patty Doctor competition, or indeed any kind of computer vision classification
task needs this. And I ran this SWIP on three consumer RTX GPUs in 12 hours or something.
Like this is not big institutional resources required. And one of the reasons why is because
I didn't try every possible level of everything. I tried a couple of, you know, so Thomas did a
kind of a quick learning rate SWIP to kind of get a sense of the broad range of learning rates
that seemed pretty good. And then we just tried a couple of learning rates and a couple of the
best resized methods and a couple of the best polling types across a few broadly different
kinds of models across the two different datasets to kind of see if there was any common features.
And we found in every single case, the same learning rate, the same resized method, and the
same polling type was the best. So we didn't need to try every possible combination of everything.
You know, and this is where like a lot of the stuff you see from like Google and stuff,
they tend to do hundreds of thousands of experiments because I guess because they don't,
they have no need to do things efficiently. Right.
Yeah, but you don't have to do it the Google way. You can do it the fast AI way.
Quick question Jeremy. Which cards did you use? And another question is why do you keep?
Which cards did you say? Yeah, the GPU cards.
Oh, 3090. Oh, okay. So they were all three different.
They're all 3090s. Oh, okay. And you reset the index after the query. Why?
Oh, just because otherwise it shows the numeric ID here will be the new
America ID from the original data set. And I wanted to be able to quickly kind of say,
what's number six? What's number 10? That's all. That's all. This is crucial.
Okay. Jeremy, getting back to the earth,
said a lot of images. When you say, you know, like the class of potassium, what is it trying to
classify? In this case, the planet competition.
There's some examples. Basically, they try to classify for each area of the satellite
imagery. What's it a picture of? Forest or farmland or town or whatever.
What weather conditions to observe, if I remember correctly.
Question in this image space. Is it just these two major data sets? Or how do you find other
models that are trained on beside the planet and you imagine it?
You mean beside planet and pets?
Sorry. Yeah. That's it.
And so what was your question? How do you do what with them?
How do you find other trained pre trained models that have been worked on different
images?
Oh, these all use pre trained models pre trained on ImageNet. These are only using
pre trained models pre trained on ImageNet. So how do you find pre trained models pre trained
on other things? Mainly you don't. There aren't many. But you know, just Google.
Depends what you're interested in and academic papers.
There is a, I don't know how it's doing. There was a, yeah, here we are, model zoo.
So there is a model zoo which I've never had much success with, to be honest.
So these are a range of pre trained models that you can download.
Yeah. But as I say, I haven't found it particularly successful, to be honest.
You could also try papers with, papers with code.
And I think these, yeah, they have a link to the paper and the code. That doesn't necessarily
mean they've got a pre trained model. But then you can just click on the code and
then see.
And of course for NLP models, there's the hugging face model hub which we've seen before.
And that isn't easy answer to NLP. It's like, but lots of different pre trained models are on that hub.
And Jeremy, since you touch on academic papers and papers with code,
first question, will this comparison, will you, do you or Thomas intend to publish it?
And if not, if you were to do that, well, what would you go for actually?
What kind of journal would you look at?
Yeah. So I'm not a good person to ask that question because I very rarely publish anything, which is partly a philosophical thing.
You know, I find academia, you know, overly exclusive and I don't, you know, and I don't love PDFs as a publication form.
And I don't love the writing style, which is kind of required if you're going to get published as being like rather
difficult to follow.
I have published a couple of papers, but like only really one
significant deep learning one. And that was because
guy named Sebastian Ruder was doing his PhD at the time and he said it'd be really helpful to him if we could co publish
something and that he would kind of take the lead on writing the paper. And so that was good because I'm always very happy to help students and
you know, I didn't need to do a good job and he was of use terrific research at a work with.
The other time I've written a paper, the main time was when I wanted to get the message out about masks and I felt like it probably
not going to be taken seriously unless it's in an exclusive academic paper because medical people are very into exclusive things.
Yeah, so I don't know. Like I'd say like this kind of thing
I suspect would be quite hard to publish because most
deep learning academic venues are very focused on things with kind of
reasonably strong theoretical pieces and this kind of
field of like trying things and seeing what works
is you know, experiment based is certainly a very important part of science in other areas, but in the deep learning world it hasn't really yet been recognised as a
valid source of research as far as I can tell.
Oh, I could concur with all the domains and feel the same quandary to be nice to you.
Fair enough. What's your domain?
Hydrology, but more the computational science part of it.
Okay, so then what I did
was I
I mean this is kind of a bit at the same time, but I went back to Patty
and I wanted to try out a few of these interesting looking models reasonably quickly.
So what I did was I kind of took our standard, well in this case three lines of code because I
already untied it earlier, took our three lines of code so I could basically say train
and pass in an architecture and pass in some per item preprocessing, in this case resizing everything to the same square using squish,
and some per batch preprocessing, which is in this case is the standard fast AI data augmentation transforms targeting a final size of 224,
which is what most models tend to be trained at.
And so I then trained a model using those parameters and then finally it would use test time augmentation.
So test time augmentation is where I think we briefly mentioned it last time we on this case on the validation set.
I basically run the model the pre the fine tuned model four times using random data augmentation each time, and then I run it one more time with no data augmentation at all and take an average of all of those five predictions.
Basically, and that gives me some predictions and then I take an error rate for TTA for the test time augmentation.
So that basically spits out a number which is an error rate for Paddy.
And I use a fixed random seed when picking out my validation set.
So each time I run this, it's going to be with the same validation set, and so I can compare.
So I've got a few different conch next small models over run.
First of all, by squishing when I resize.
And then by cropping when I resize.
So that was two three five is also two three five.
And then instead of resizing to a square I resize to a rectangle.
In theory, this wouldn't have been necessary. I thought they were all 480 by 680 sorry 480 by 640.
But what I ran this I got an error.
And then I looked back at the results of that parallel image sizing thing we ran and I realized there was actually three or four images that were the opposite aspect ratio.
That's why. So the most the vast majority of the images this resizing does nothing at all.
Like this three or four that are the opposite aspect ratio.
And then for the augmentation yeah picker.
Size based on two to four.
Of a similar aspect ratio. But what I'm actually aiming for here.
Is something that is a multiple of 32 on both edges.
And the reason for that we'll kind of get into later when we learn about how convolutional networks really well really work.
But it basically turns out that the kind of the final patch size in a conf net is 32 by 32 pixels.
So you generally want both of your sides normally you want them to be multiples of 32.
So this one got a pretty similar result again to 40.
And then I wasn't sure about my contention that they need to be multiples of 32.
I thought maybe it's better if they like a really crisp resizing by using an exact multiple.
So I tried that as well.
And that as I suspected was a bit worse.
And.
Oh, what's this? I've got some which which ones are the right way around now I'm confused.
I think.
Let's check.
Some of these originally I had my aspect ratio backwards.
That's why I've got both. It looks like I never got around to removing the ones that were unnecessary.
Oops.
Muscle size.
First off.
method equals add, oops, pad mode.
This just, this makes it a bit easier to see what's going on if you do padding with black
around them.
There we go.
Okay, yeah.
So you can clearly see this is the one way around, right?
I've tried to make them wide, but actually they were tall.
So the best way around is actually 640 by 480.
That's more like it.
So 640 by 480 is best.
So let's get rid of the ones that were the wrong way around.
Okay.
All right.
Yeah, so that was all various different transforms, preprocessing for conflict next small, and
then I did the same thing for one of the VITs, VIT small.
Now, VIT, remember I mentioned it can only work on 224 by 224 images.
So these rectangular approaches aren't going to be possible.
So I've just got the squish and the crop versions.
The crop version doesn't look very good.
The squish version must look pretty good.
I also tried a pad version, which looks pretty good.
And then, yeah, I also tried to swin.
So here's swin V2.
And this one is slow and memory intensive.
So I had to go down to the 192 pixel version.
But actually it seems to work very well.
This is the first time we've had one that's better than.02.
This is interesting.
This one's also very good.
So it's interesting that this slow memory intensive model works better even on smaller
size, 192 pixel size, which I think is pretty interesting.
And then there was one more swin, which seemed to do pretty well.
So I included that, which I was able to do at 224.
That one had okay results.
So like I kind of did that for all these different small models.
And as you can see, they run pretty quickly, right?
Five or ten minutes.
So then I picked out the ones that look pretty fast.
That sounded pretty fast.
Pretty accurate.
And created just a copy of that, which I called Petty Large.
And this time I just replaced small with large.
And actually I've made a mistake.
I'm going to have to rerun this because there should not be a small.
And I see it equals 42.
I actually want to run this on a different subset each time.
And the reason why is my plan is to train.
So basically what I did is I deleted the ones that were less good in Petty Small.
And so now I'm just running the large ones.
Now some of these, particularly something like this one, which is 288 by 224, they ran
out of memory.
They were too big for my graphics card.
And a lot of people at this point say, oh, I need to go buy a more expensive graphics
card.
But that's not true.
You don't.
So if you guys remember our training loop, we get the gradients.
We add the gradients times a learning rate to the weights.
And then we zero the gradients.
What you could do is half the batch size, so for example from 64 to 32, and then only
zero the gradients every two iterations.
And so and only do the update every two iterations.
So basically you can calculate in two batches what you used to calculate in one batch and
it will be mathematically identical.
And that's called gradient accumulation.
And so for the ones which ran out of memory, I added this little acume equals true, which
is here in my function.
And I said, yeah, I said if a queue equals true, then set the batch size to 32, because
by default it's 64.
And add this thing called a callback.
Callbacks are basically things that change the behavior of the training.
And there's a thing called gradient accumulation callback, which gradient accumulation.
And this is like just the people that are interested.
This is not like massively complex stuff.
The entire gradient accumulation callback is that many lines of code.
Right?
These are not big things.
And like literally all it does is it keeps account of how many iterations it's been.
And it adds the keeps track of the count.
And as long as we're not up to the point where we, there's the number of accumulations we
want, we skip the step and the zero gradient basically.
So it's, yeah, things like gradient accumulation, they sound like big complex things, but they
are turned out not to be at least when you have a nice code base like fasting eyes.
Jeremy, can I get a question here to scratch?
Of course.
How exactly do the batch size mass notions worry?
So we will get into that in detail in the course.
But certainly we get into it in detail in the book.
But basically all that happens is we randomly shuffle the data set and we grab, so if the
batch size is 64, we grab the next 64 images.
We resize them all to be the same size and we stack them on top of each other.
So if it's black and white images, for example, we would have 64, whatever, 640 by 480 images.
And so we end up with a 64 by 640 by 480 range tensor.
And pretty much all the like functionality provided by trytorch will work fine for a
mini batch of things just as it would for a single thing on the whole.
So in the large scheme of things, you know, like some huge process that's trying to characterize
what role is the batch sort of claim?
Well, it's just about trying to get the most out of your GPU.
Your GPU can do 10,000 things at once.
So if you just give it one image at a time, you can use it.
So if you give it 64 things, it can do one thing on each image and then on each channel
in that image.
And then you don't have another few other kind of degrees of paralyzation it can do.
And so that's where you start.
But we saw that Nvidia SMI Dmon command that shows you the utilization of your symmetric
multiprocessor.
If you use a batch size of one, you'll see that SM will be like 1%, 2%, and everything
will be useless.
It's a bit tricky at inference time, you know, in production or whatever, because, you know,
most of the time you only get one thing to do at a time.
And so often inference is done on CPU rather than GPU because we don't get to benefit from
batching.
Or people will queue a few of them up and stick the model on the GPU at once and stuff
like that.
But for training, it's pretty easy to take advantage of many branches.
No worries.
Jamie, you've trained so many models.
Will you consider using a majority vote or something like that?
No, I wouldn't because a majority vote throws away information.
It throws away the probabilities.
So I pretty much always find I get better results by averaging the probabilities.
So each of the models after I've trained it, I'm exporting to a uniquely named model, which
is going to be the name of the architecture and then an underscore and then some description,
which is just the thing I pass in.
And so that way, yeah, when I'm done training, I can just have a little loop which opens
each of those models up, grabs the TTA predictions, sticks them into our list, and then at the
end, I'll average those TTA predictions across the models and that will be my ensemble prediction.
So that's my next step.
I'm not up to that yet.
Okay.
All right.
Well, I think that's it.
So that's really more of a little update on what I've been doing over my weekend.
Hopefully, yeah, gives you some ideas for things to try.
And hopefully you find the Kaggle book useful.
So, Jeremy, so how many are those videos spending all these explanations because you spend a
lot of experience here?
So, you know, it's like a week or two of work to do the fine tuning experiments, but that
was like a few hours here and a few hours there.
The final sweep was probably maybe six hours of 3 GPUs.
The Paddy Competition stuff was maybe four hours a day over the last four days since I
last saw you guys and riding the notebook was maybe another four hours.
Thanks.
It helps.
No worries.
All right.
Bye, everybody.
Nice to see you all.
Bye.
Thanks, Jeremy.
Bye, everyone.
Bye.